keep it simple in the kitchen doesn't
mean you can't have amazing food that
now only looks incredible but tastes
fantastic too
my first recipe is so easy it removes
the stress from cooking and is a
pleasure to make chili beef lettuce
wraps the cooking should never be a
chore the more you cook and what
confident you become that way you
actually start to enjoy it and that's
the key to good cooking a bit of fun
along the way
this is minced beef and minced pork the
pork needs to sit in there otherwise the
beats gonna dry out really important to
season the mins before when you cook it
pan nice and hot touch of olive oil
mince in break it up like that really
help to sort of separate it so you can
fry off with a lot of color just food
just go through
[Music]
I start breaking that up most important
to remember is mint is made up of cheek
guts brisket belly short rib so it needs
help and flying off the mints for color
is so important this pan what an ass
you're miss is gonna boil there's a hold
the gray color on there and there's no
flavor on your mint taste a little bit
tastes delicious and seasoned easily see
how crispy is going take it much further
than you ever taken mints before nice
and crispy smells incredible I'm
draining it is crucial that keeps the
mints nice and crispy and you get rid of
that excess fat
[Music]
now let's wipe out the pan then Russia
low gas now we're gonna add texture to
mince finely chopped chilli ginger
garlic and spring onions spring onions
give this sort of mince really nice
freshness because it just gives that
crunch nice and thinly
now I'll fire off the chilies the ginger
the garlic first sesame seed order
teaspoon only in garlic chilli ginger in
Y that off nicely the sesame seed oil
just lifts up the whole flavor touching
brown sugar that starts to really
caramelize the chili the garlic and the
ginger mince in now my fish sauce that
gives it the saltiness if you see now
why it's so important to get that mince
really crispy because nothing's going
sogok staying really crispy fresh lime
it makes the mince fragrant and then
lime juice roll it and squeeze that in
there incredible a bit salty but the
heat forgot the sweetness now got this
sitting this as well and then finally my
spring onions in the right the last
minute so I've got crunch in there as
well smells amazing literally cooked the
mince now with sort of 30 seconds to go
get off and take it out
looks incredible smells so vital
[Music]
to go with a chili beef I'm making a
simple sweet and spicy dipping sauce
so everyone can dress the crispy mint to
their own taste dipping sauce TSP the
brown sugar soy sauce is a nice sort of
dark rich cover sesame seed oil the
table spoon and just top that up with a
tablespoon of olive oil
that stops the sesame seed oil becoming
too rich a teaspoon of fish sauce and
then a touch of chili you leave the
seeds in again on the heat in our sauce
so impressive an amazing shaf
centerpiece lime juice in in the
coriander chopped it through once give
that little mix up
just check the seasoning mmm that's
lovely that's enriched now the lettuce
I'm gonna use baby Jan because it's
really nice and durable sort of quite
strong so you just sort of sit these
nice trimmed lettuce leaves around now
the exciting part sir take your lettuce
up
spoon in your mince and then little
touch from dressing just a little
drizzle nice and that's the secret of
having good easy relaxed food is that
you just help yourself food that looks
and tastes a million bucks doesn't have
to be complex this dish is as fun to
cook as it is to eat
[Music]
what are the keys to keeping it simple
is to prepare all the ingredients in
advance more organized you are in the
kitchen so easier couldn´t becomes here
are three of my favorite quick recipes
that would a bit of advance preparation
are so simple to make
starting with my easy fragrant fried
rice
first get preps chopped garlic ginger
and chili keeping the seeds for extra
kick sliced spring onions chopped spring
greens and trimmer head of broccoli then
whisk 2 eggs prep done stir-fry on add a
good glug of oil to a hot pan garlic
ginger chili
next the spring greens and broccoli add
water to steam
[Music]
then cook rice this dish is perfect for
using leftover rice make a well add the
eggs
spring onions and a dash of fish sauce
[Music]
scramble then mix season
[Applause]
top with lime and spring onions
my fragrant fried rice made simple with
advanced prep and ready in five minutes
my next recipe
it pays to get prep for is garlic and
saffron mayonnaise first get your
ingredients two hand eggs should be out
of the fridge and at room temperature
soaked saffron in warm water saffron is
the most expensive spice in the world
made from the dried stigma of crocus
flowers but even a pinch gives a
fantastic taste and a wonderful color
next separate three eggs put the yolks
into a mixing bowl add Dijon mustard
finely chopped garlic the drained
saffron and a squeeze of lemon then mix
whisking constantly and oil slowly it
won't take forever
for perfect flavor use half olive oil
and half best law
when the mayonnaise comes together
season a smooth thick consistency means
it's done
top with saffron
rich delicious and perfect with
everything from seafood to sandwiches
and chips my second recipe garlic and
saffron mayonnaise easy to get right as
long as you planned ahead
my final dish that's a cinch to cook
with a little advanced prep work is
mussels with celery and chili
[Music]
first prep the veg chopped spring onions
shallots a clove of garlic and chilli to
taste then thinly sliced celery
at a bay leaf and thyme bed ready
at oil to a pan and fry
[Music]
season then add mussels and stir
mussels were my favourite shellfish
cheap healthy and delicious
cover and sting for a couple of minutes
as the muscles open add vermouth an
aromatic fortified wine
[Music]
and 150 mil of dry white wine
on a high heat reduce the liquid to
create a source
discard any muscles that are still shut
[Music]
then finish with creme fraiche and chop
parsley
[Music]
minimal prep and cooked in less than 10
minutes my muscles are celery and chilli
impressive affordable and super speedy
make it simple in the kitchen by
prepping your ingredients in advance and
I promise you'll find these three
recipes a pleasure to make don't need to
spend a fortune on masses of kitchen
equipment this is my quick guide to
kitchen knives basically three knives a
heavy duty chopping knife followed by a
small paring knife which is brilliant
for prepping vegetables and then this
baby here a serrated edge knife and for
carving and slicing basically that is it
before you buy a knife hold it in your
hand and make sure it feels right for
you the secret behind a great set of
knives is in the handle if you're
comfortable holding the handle your
cutting can be so much easier the firm
of the grip of the better for chopping
the heavier handle and more control
we've got over the blade with these
three knives you can't go wrong
my next recipe is easy and a pleasure to
make if you organize with everything
ready in advance
[Music]
miso poached salmon with Asian
vegetables organization is key in the
kitchen take a couple of minutes before
you start and set yourself up make sure
you know everything is stock spatula pan
etc it becomes less stressful but more
importantly the end results are
incredible first off get your pan on
whisp and stock start off with this
amazing fermented soy bean puree into
the pan three nice tablespoons gas on
now get your fish stock and whisk into
the puree be generous with the stock you
want this nice light broth basically you
can buy miso paste from big supermarkets
and it was brilliantly with salmon
poaching the salmon in the miso stir
gives it a really nice sort of sweet
earthy creamy flavor
it's incredible to bring up to the ball
could infuse the broth and make a little
bit more fragrant kaffir lime leaf is
bay lemonade in size the miso broth then
chopped chili chilies in and finely
sliced ginger
that's simmering beautifully now we're
post the salmon poaching means cooking
it in liquid first cook gently and the
secret here is to keep that salmon skin
on if we took the skin off now
the salmon will actually break up whilst
it's poaching skin side down just going
to slide that in under nice minute that
stop starts boiling turn it down let it
simmer take a little ladle and just
every couple minutes pour over that
makes sure the top of the salmon is
cooked evenly and then keeps it nice and
moist and poaching is one of the most
delicate ways of cooking so you have to
handle it with care whilst the Salmons
poaching and the miso broth start
preparing your vegetables I'm using
tender stem broccoli and bok choy
I always like to cook the leaf and the
stem separately
the leaf is like sort of spinach and the
stem is so much bigger it's almost as
thick as a stick of celery so I like to
get the stems sliced it just sounds like
that nice full of Christmas place the
leaves together nicely roll them up nice
and tight and then slice them down now
our salad
already the flavor in that broth has
been elevated now it tastes really fishy
got the heat the chili spiciness the
ginger and the kaffir lime leaf take
your fish slice and place it very gently
underneath the salmon and push it down
fish slices are flexible for that reason
bend it lift it up just touch looking
for a springy firm texture just
sit on top little touch other broth over
it it stops it from drying out leave
that to cool down for two minutes
bring the stock back up to the boil
broccoli in bak choy stems in little
taste
[Music]
it's get better and better and better
cook the broccoli and the bok choy stems
for one minute and then add the tops in
turn the salmon into your hand just peel
the skin off the skin also helps to keep
the salmon nice and moist then gently
flaked the salmon that's the secret
behind poaching everything just stays so
moist wonderful long shards of pink now
just before surf we're gonna add our
mushrooms these are enoki mushrooms you
could buy these in Turkey mushrooms in
big supermarkets and good grocers you
slice them off and put half in and the
other half I serve with the salmon
toasted sesame seed oil but a little
drip in there just rub and you're just
lining almost like a little coat of
varnish start off with your mushrooms
and then my salmon for nice layers and
then finally
the mushrooms top with the vegetables
and then finally a nice ladle damn
beautiful really sumptuous rich stock
lovely and that isn't amazing miss ooh
poached salmon soup simplify your
cooking by getting organized an amazing
food will be coming out of your kitchen
every day and for great food you need
great ingredients next up my shopping
guide to getting the finest fish well I
buy my fish only one the freshest and
the best and if anyone knows how to get
the best it's Roger Kent Barton he's
been buying and selling fish and the
world-famous Billingsgate market in
London for over 50 years I love it I
think it's the greatest food of all time
oh I so literally every variety there is
I could feed you a different fish 365
days a year
this guy really knows how to sniff out
the good from the bad Oh fish smell
different the longer it surrounds the
more fishy it will smell when it's
lovely and fresh it doesn't smell
whenever you're gonna buy fish don't be
frightened get your nose right into it
don't go like get it into it smelly
smell sting like it smells so I call
cemani and it's lovely Farah Mundi it's
a lovely fish the way to tell good fish
is look at it closely it's shining it
still got the bloom on it his eyes are
bright as yours look in the girl love
iane Reds
put it in a bag for the gentleman please
people should always be asking about
their fish what kind of fish is it
whereas it comes from a nice salmon
19 bound it's a bargain at 20 pounds
Rogers right that one's brilliant value
and a great all-rounder really healthy
and super delicious here's a quick look
at the different cuts and how to use
them
[Music]
whole salmon always impresses it's
fantastic stuffed and steamed either in
a fish kettle or in the oven wrapped in
foil steaks are great value and
brilliant baked a side of salmon is
perfect for poaching home curing of
bacon in pastry the fill it is so
versatile easy faster cook and great for
pan frying smoked salmon delicious
cooked or raw I love it with scrambled
eggs
broadly there's white fish and this oily
fish they come under two different
sections here we have white fish it's
lovely its cogs it's the best car in the
world it comes to a place called Peter
head it's nice and white the whites of
the better one of the most all official
fine Michael there it is lovely color
with most fish the fresher they are the
harder they are if you're not well and
you're ill have a Macbook sprats
otherwise known as top axe here we have
flatfish and these are known as place as
you can see they've got spots the redder
they are the pressure they are it really
is a lovely fish story King George
couldn't have better for fish fresh
enough for royalty follow your fish
mongers advice and you'll never ever
have another dodgy Dover sole again
[Music]
next my tricks the trade and kitchen
tips
first how to chop an onion this is the
root that's absolutely crucial leave
that on there if you cut that off the
onion will start to bleed and you'll
start crying rapidly slice going forward
that weight of the knife do the work
three fingers one in front two behind
and this part of the knuckle is gonna
guide the knife fingers on top of the
onion point the knife towards the root
and try to get as close to the root as
possible nice long stroke and then push
the onion back together push the knife
halfway in to the onion slightly tilt
the knife down one at the top and then
gripping the onion like a tennis ball
holding it together in place with the
weight of the blade to cut through that
onion to get to the base of the root
again turn it round up and down motion
and that's what we're left there no
waste just the root and look there
you've got a really nice finely chopped
onion so much great cooking depends on
starting with a high enough heat if a
recipe calls for a hot pan put on early
so it gets smoking hot and always
remember to pre-heat your oven at least
20 minutes before cooking
a clean cook is an efficient my tip for
tidy cooking area is to always have a
waste Bowl next to you it's saved you
going back and forth to the bins never
add salt eggs before cooking them
because it ruins the texture and dulls
the color instead save your seasoning to
the very end
[Music]
the key to cooking meat is to make sure
it's at room temperature before you
begin cook straight from the fridge the
muscle fibers will be tight which
results in tough meat and always let it
rest afterwards so relaxed is becoming
tender and juicy
[Music]
follow my ultimate cookery course
crammed with key lessons top tips and a
hundred recipes to stake your life on
and you'll literally be cooking yourself
into a better chef
many of these amazing recipes are on my
app please check out the App Store for
details go on get cooking